We begin with an archived interview of Brother Allen Boyle.
Among his many assignments, Brother Boyle spent 37 years in the art department at World Headquarters.
The beautiful and accurate illustrations produce their enhanced hour study,
helping us to visualize and meditate on what we are reading.
An assignment to create these pictures is exciting,
but it requires that a person have spiritual qualities.
Artists collaborate and must humbly listen to each other's comments.
They must apply direction from the faithful and discreet slave to prepare artwork
that we can take in as spiritual food.
As you'll hear Brother Boyle describe, a person must be an avid student of the Bible.
Listen to Brother Boyle's story and note what he said was needed for him to do his assignment well.
I was born in 1933.
I got to the age of 18, and one supper time my mother had invited the company servants,
as they were called back then, to come for supper.
He asked me what I was going to do with my life.
I said to him, well, I'm going to pioneer.
The three weeks later, the convention in London, I got baptized,
and then went pioneering six months after that.
I was 21 when I was on the circuit work, and that was a wonderful experience.
And in those days, of course, you didn't have a car.
I used to have a motorbike, and I'd go around the motorbike and my briefcase
and my typewriter and the clothes in the other case on the back.
Yeah, that was very exciting.
I was invited to go to Gilead, and that was wonderfully exciting.
We had 103 in the class.
Little did I know at that time that I would be sent as a missionary to Ireland.
My friend had been invited to go down to London Bethel to do the artwork there.
I'd always wanted to be in Bethel.
I thought, well, why don't I just call him up and congratulate him?
So that's what I did.
And he told me that he decided not to go in.
So he said, if you're still interested, why don't you call him up and let them know?
So that's what I did.
The next morning, I called up London Bethel, and within a week, I was in London Bethel.
Doing the graphics work for the magazine.
It was a wonderful thrilling experience.
I was in London Bethel for a couple of years in 1977 to 1979,
and Brother Barry invited me to come over to Brooklyn Bethel.
You know that you're doing something that's going to be beneficial and helpful to other people,
to people even in different languages and different cultures.
Little painting that you do is going to help them to get a memory of something significant.
One of the most beautiful things about working in the art department and doing paintings
is that it makes you do research.
You have to investigate, is this the right time of the day?
Is it night? Is it day?
What's the sky looked like?
What was it like before the flood when Noah built the ark?
How did he paint underneath the ark?
How did he waterproof it?
Because that's the worst important part, isn't it?
He used bitumen.
Okay, how did he get underneath the ark?
Maybe put it on still. You have to come up with all these little questions in your mind.
To do the research was very rewarding.
This is a little model of a boat.
And underneath the deck they used to keep a ballast sack of 110 pounds of sand.
It says in the scriptures that Jesus was a sleep on a pillow.
Apparently this was the ballast sack that he was a sleep on.
And actually in the Kingdom into linear translation,
it doesn't say he was a sleep on a pillow.
It says he was a sleep on the pillow.
So apparently back 2000 years ago in that area,
everybody knew what the pillow was.
I remember meeting a brother once who'd been to Siberia.
And he'd taken a snapshot of somebody's kitchen in Siberia.
And to my amazement on the wall,
pinned with drawing pins on the wall,
was one of the pages or the publications that we'd produced here at Brooklyn.
And so remarkably, it's wonderful to feel that whatever we do here,
if it's support work, if it's the painting,
and of course we need a lot of support work for the paintings,
all what we do here has an effect upon the brothers and sisters out there in the world,
wherever it might be.
And you really feel that your time is well worth spent.
You're adorning the word of truth,
you're helping other people to be taught something from the Bible,
which is going to be to that benefit.
It's been very rewarding and thrilling to be in Jehovah's service,
and I've really enjoyed it.
Alan Boyle finished his earthly course in 2016.
Those in the art department who worked with him,
remember his enthusiasm and his thorough attention to detail.
What Alan brought to his assignment was rooted in his own personal study
of the Bible.
He founded Rewarding to do the research needed to illustrate Bible scenes.
Today, the writing department supplies a team of researchers to assist the artists.
But did you recall what Alan said helped his research?
He asked questions about the scenes he was painting.
These same kinds of questions are part of the study methods
Gilead students learning class.